in the best case traditional arts are
taught by studying with the master it's
how college student Jenny quam became a
Cambodian classical dancers usually
start out in the royal palace it was
only for the rich the royal family to
watch the countryside never had you know
seen it before and then after 1970s when
most of the performers were killed they
brought it back room I idolized it in
the 1980s and so it was for everyone
when I was five I can remember back when
I saw my teacher performer any classical
performance on TV I'd get chills on my
back and ever since then I've been
begging my parents to get into dances
like next year next year we didn't find
a teacher until I was 14 it's like I
really want to dance for you so my dad
and I did some research online and we
found a local performer which I marañon
who's my master now and ever since then
I started dance for me now jenny has
students of her own I'm a first
generation Cambodian my parents are
refugees my dad's from Vietnam my mom
from Cambodia it was my way of bridging
younger kids to our culture like
Cambodian families I've learned that
they come to the u.s. they become
assimilated into the American culture
and then there's a diaspora and we lose
a sense of our identity I thought that
but every culture is unique for
something
I thought Cambodian classical dance was
unique art form that represented
Cambodian culture
dance connects Jenny to her America and
to her mother
I would know what to do without my mom
she would have to tie the skirt for me
make sure my shirt is on correctly put
this my which is almost like a fabric
that goes over your shoulder because in
our culture the shoulders if you're
showing your shoulders it's like being
naked make sure my headdress is on
correctly everything looks okay
All My Children upward here and they're
not born in Cambodia and I want them to
know the blood of where how parents how
great-grandparents from so by putting
her dancing is to know that remember
where her parent and great-grandparents
coming from so she be able to teach how
old children's the value of Cambodia
Jenny's father was a monk in Vietnam
before coming to America he built the
Buddhist altar now when their living
room and I come to United Stated in
1980-81 I write in San Francisco get up
from airport with my bear food in that
time is the January it's very cold
yeah then I still tell my children say I
can't hear nothing but I will tell you a
few years ago Jenny and her family took
a trip back to Cambodia and Vietnam to
see their long-lost relatives a rude
awakening 25 days of camping I think we
spent 15 days in Vietnam ten days in
Cambodia
my parents family are from the
countryside so being an American kid I
didn't know what an outhouse was I
didn't know what mosquito net was like
or sleeping on wooden planks
it's definitely different it also made
me value what I have now my cousins who
work for only two dollars a day I eat
five dollars it was a culture shock but
Jenny plans a return to Cambodia this
time for a college internship maybe it's
a trip to find myself I'll be working
with street children who are being
reintegrated into the public school
system not so different really from
teaching dance I'm passing on my talents
to a five-year-old and then when they
get older they might want their
daughters or son to dance too it's a way
of telling history you can't forget it